I miss a bit about 12 years old when my
dad took me to an exhibition on space
look far from here in Brussels and the
year was about I think was 1988 so it
was the end of the Cold War there was a
bit of an up and ship going on between
the Americans and the Russians bringing
bits to the exhibition
NASA brought a big blowup Space Shuttle
the Russians they brought a MIR space
station it was actually the training
module and it could go inside and check
it all out it was a real thing where the
buttons were were the wires were where
the astronauts were eating where they
were working and when I came home I
first thing I did I started drawing
spaceships now these weren't science
fiction spaceships no they're actually
technical drawings they were sections
cut away sections of what curved
structure would be made out of where the
wires were where the screws were so for
sure I didn't become a space engineer
but I did become an architect this is
some of the projects I've been involved
with over the last decades and a half
all these projects are quite different
quite different shapes and it is because
they're built in different environments
they have different constraints and I
think design becomes really interesting
when you get really harsh constraints
now these projects have been all over
the world a few years ago this map was
good enough was too small we had to add
this one because we were gonna do a
project on the moon for the European
Space Agency they asked us to design a
moon habitat and one on Mars with NASA a
competition to look at a habitation on
Mars whenever you go to another place as
an architect and try to design something
you look at the local architecture the
precedents that are there now on the
moon is kind of difficult of course
because there's only this is only the
Apollo missions it's lost that we went
there I wasn't even born yet and we only
spent about three days there so for me
that's it's kind of a long camping trip
isn't it but a rather expensive one now
the tricky thing when you're going to
build another planet or another moon is
how to get it there how to get there so
first of all to get a kilogram for
example to a moon surface it will cost
about two hundred thousand dollars very
expensive so you want to keep it very
light second space space is limited
all right listen Ariane 5 rocket space
you have there is about four and a half
meters by seven meters not that much so
it needs to be an architectural system
that is both compact or compatible and
lights and I think I've got one right
here it's very compact and it's very
light and actually this is one I made
earlier now it's no problem with it
that inflatables are quite fragile they
need to be protected specifically when
you go to a very harsh environment like
the moon look at it like this the
temperature difference on a moon base
could be anything of the tunes of
degrees you could have on one side of
the base it could be 100 degrees Celsius
and the other side could be minus under
degrees need to protect yourself from
that the moon also does not have any
magnetic fields which means that any
radiation solar radiation caused
radiation will hit the surface we to
protect yourself from that as well
protect the astronauts from that and
then third definitely not last the moon
does not have any atmosphere which means
any meteorites coming into it will not
get burned up and they hit the surface
that's what a moon is full of craters
again reads protect the astronauts from
dance so what kind of structure do we
need well the best thing is really a
cave because the cave has a lot of mass
and we need mass we need to mass to pick
us up from the temperatures from the
radiation and from the meteorites so
this is how we solved it we have indeed
the blue parts as you can see that's an
inflatable for a moon base it gives a
lot of living space and a lot of lab
space and attach to it you have a
cylinder and that has all the support
structures in all the life supports and
also the airlock and on top of that we
have a structure that domed structure
that protects herself has a lot of mass
in it where we're going to get this
material from are we going to bring
concrete and cement from Earth to the
Moon or of course now because it's way
too heavy it's too expensive so we're
gonna go and use local materials
now local materials is something we do
on earth as well wherever we built or
whatever country we built we always look
at what are the local materials here
prove with the moon is what are the
local materials well there's not that
many make sure we have one it's moon
dust or fancy a scientific name regulate
moon regulate great thing is it's
everywhere right the surface is covered
with it as about twenty centimeters up
to a few meters everywhere but how we're
gonna build with it
well we're gonna use a 3d printer we
never asked any of you one of three
printers you probably are thinking while
Peru something but this size
and it will print things that are about
this size so of course I'm not gonna
bring a massive 3d printer to the moon
to print my moon base I'm gonna use a
much smaller device something like this
one here so this is a small device a
small robot Rover that has little scoop
and it brings the regolith to the dome
and then it lays down a thin layer of
regolith and then you will have the
robot that will solidify it layer by
layer until it creates after a few
months the full base you might have
noticed that there are quite a
particular structure that we printing
and I've got a little example here what
we call this is a closed cell foam
structure looks quite natural the reason
why we're using this as part of that
shell structure is there we only just
solidify certain parts which means we
have to bring less binder from earth and
it becomes much lighter now that
approach of designing something and then
covering it with a protective dome we
also did for our Mars project you see
here three domes and you see the
printers printing these dome structures
there is a big difference between Mars
and Moon and let me explain it this
diagram shows you to scale the size of
Earth and the moon and the real distance
about four hundred thousand kilometers
if we then go to Mars the distance from
Mars to earth and this picture here is
taken by the rover on Mars Curiosity
looking bad at Earth you could have seen
a little speckle there that's earth four
hundred million kilometers away the
problem with that distance is is that
it's thousand times the distance
earth-moon really far away but there's
no direct radio contact with for example
the Curiosity rover so I cannot tell
you're a tit
from Earth I can't say Mars rover go
left because that signal will take 20
minutes to get to Mars then the rover
might go left and then taking out 20
minutes before you can tell me oh yeah I
went left
so the distance oh stuff Rovers and
robots are gonna have to work
autonomously the only issue with it is
that missions to Mars are highly risky
we've only seen it a few weeks ago so
what if half of the mission doesn't
arrive at Mars what did we do well
instead of building just one or two
Rovers that we did on the moon we're
gonna build hundreds of them and it's a
bit like a termite mound you know too
much I would take half of the calling of
the termites away they would still be
able to build the mount it might take a
little bit longer same here
if half of our Rovers or robots don't
arrive well it will take a bit longer
but we still be able to do it so here we
even have three different Rovers in the
back you see the digger it's really good
at digging regulates then we have the
transporter create a taking regulate and
bringing it to the structure and the
last was the little most with the little
legs they don't need to move a lot what
they do is they go and sit on the layers
will regulate and then microwave it
together and layer by layer create that
dumb structure now we also want to try
that out so we went out on a workshop
and we created our own swarm of robots
there we go so you build 10 of those so
small swarm and we took 6 tons of sand
and we tried out how these little robots
would actually be able to move sand
around earth sand in in this case and
they were not telling operated right
nobody was telling them go left go right
or giving them
describe pass no they were given a task
move sent from this area to that area
and if they came across Knob Stickle
like a rock they had to sort itself out
themselves
or they came across another robot that
be able to make decisions or even if
half of them fell out the batteries died
they still had to be able to finish that
task now I talked about redundancy but
that was not only with the robots
it was also with the habitat on the Mars
project we decided to do three domes
because if one didn't arrive the other
two could still form a base and that was
mainly because each of the domes
I actually have a life support system
built in the floor so they can work
independently so anyway you might think
well this is this is pretty crazy - why
would you as an architect get involved
in space because it's such a technical
field well I'm actually really convinced
that from with a creative view we're a
design view you are able to solve really
hard and really constraint problems and
I really feel that there is a place for
design and architecture in projects like
interplanetary habitation thank you
[Music]
you